# Zomato_Analysis
This is an overall restaurant performance, customer behavior, and sales trend analysis from Zomato data. Tools Used: Power BI, Excel, Tableau Objectives of the Project: Performance Analysis: The restaurants were analyzed with respect to different rating categories, and top and bottom performance, Top City-wise Restaurants, Top 10 Restaurants in various cities were to be identified to understand regional preferences, regional top competitors.
Restaurant Distribution by Country: Country-wise restaurant distribution would suggest the market penetration and potential areas of growth.
Analysis of Customer Behaviour: Analysis of customer ordering behavior to find the trends and preferences about peak ordering times, cuisine, etc.
Key Performance Metrics: Which performance metrics drive restaurants' success, such as average ratings, no. of reviews, repeat customers, etc.
Customer Segmentation: Customers are to be segmented based on ordering behavior, demographics, and other preferences to give tailor-made marketing strategies and improve customer satisfaction.
Data Cleaning and Preparation : The data was imported into the Power Query Editor in Power BI.Data types were checked, and additional columns were added to create a calendar table by extracting information from the date key column.
Data Modelling : Data modeling was done by building relationships between tables based on common columns. The new calendar table created from the date key column was also linked to other tables using the common date column with a many-to-one cardinality.
Dashboard : Created visuals , charts, slicers, cards and made interactive dashboard.
Outcome : Major (Indian) cities host the majority of restaurants, Casual Dining and Quick Bites dominate the restaurant scene, Delhi and Mumbai have a higher proportion of high-rated restaurants. There is a notable correlation between the cost of dining and the restaurant's rating, suggesting that higher costs often accompany better quality.
